We recently met Mamuka Tektumanashvili,
from the country of Georgia.
He was a high-ranking officer
in the special forces there for many years.
What made him realize
that defending his country
is not the highest honor
a man can have in his life?
This is his story.
For 18 years
I served in a special unit
responsible
for presidential security.
This mission
demanded total self-sacrifice.
For example,
the first and the last vehicles
of the presidential escort
belonged to this unit.
So if an attack
occurred on the president,
we were the first ones
to be hit with the fire.
For the last ten years
of service, I worked
as an instructor
and trained new staff
to provide
presidential security in the future.
Those working in this field
must be fearless.
They must be professionals,
and that is what I taught
to succeeding generations.
I just loved my job.
I was a fervent patriot.
I had a special regard
for the flag of my country.
In one bag,
I always had weapons and the flag.
Patriotism
was so deep-rooted in me
that I would beat up a person
simply because he was
of another nationality.
I always thought
that God would never allow
people like me
to draw close to him.
One day, Jehovah’s Witnesses came
and preached to my wife and me.
We were so interested
in the truth that my wife
even expressed
a desire to study the Bible.
Because there were rumors
circulating about Jehovah’s Witnesses,
I decided first to make sure that everything
was decent at their meetings
and only then allow my wife
to associate with them.
After the meeting,
I was absolutely thrilled.
Everyone was well-mannered,
with friendly, smiling faces.
I realized that there was nothing there
to threaten my wife’s well-being.
On the contrary, their association
would be beneficial for her.
Soon my wife
and our eldest daughter got baptized.
As for me, I enjoyed associating
with Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Later, I also started
to study the Bible.
I knew that I had to make
drastic changes in my life,
but my job
prevented me from doing so.
Moreover, I felt
that door-to-door preaching
was far more difficult
than engaging in combat.
I respected Jehovah’s Witnesses
for their courage and strength.
Little by little,
I too was changing for the better.
I wanted to quit my job and inform
my colleagues about my religious beliefs.
So I wrote down all the Bible verses
I had recently learned
and then pinned them
on the wall in my office.
I also started to think
about how to make a living
after leaving my job
and decided to learn a trade.
I started to buy tools
in order to be ready
to take care of my family.
I realized that the time
had come to make a decision.
The day I quit my job
was one of the happiest days
of my life.
Since then, I’ve been able
to dedicate every minute of my life
to Jehovah
with a clean conscience.
In a few months, I got baptized.
In the beginning,
we were hardly making a living.
However, this taught me
to trust in Jehovah.
I tried my best to keep
service to Jehovah in first place.
I deeply appreciate
the support of my brothers
and sisters
and association with them.
Before, I used to carry out
the orders of men
—some of which
I carried out reluctantly.
But now I am happy to carry out
an assignment from Jehovah
with the same spirit
that the prophet Isaiah had,
who said:
“Here I am! Send me!”
As a family, we decided to move
where the need was greater,
and this has united
our family even more.
This is the bag
in which
I always carried weapons,
but now they are replaced
with a Bible and Bible literature.
In the past, I thought
I could never preach
from door to door.
But now I can say with conviction
that the words of Jesus
have proved true in my case:
“All things are possible with God.”
Brother Tektumanashvili
now serves as an elder,
and he has also been
a regular pioneer since 2014.